# Alzheimer's Disease Detection Using MRI Scans

Developed by: Jeremy Reed, Katie Loveland, Moses Karemera, Andres Garcia

## Project Proposal
	Our project is based on finding a Machine Learning model that will yield the greatest significance in predictive modeling for Alzheimer’s disease. Alzheimer’s is a progressive degenerative disease of the nerve function throughout the body, with the root of degeneration located in the brain. It has serious effects on brain function, memory, cognitive ability, balance issues, motor function, and emotional stability. There is no cure.
	At the current time, there is also no definitive test to confirm someone has the disease. It can only be determined through autopsy post mortem. There is no known single cause. Though genetics is thought to play a role, the pathology isn’t clear.
	Medical research to find drugs that will curtail the progression of this disease has been slow in development. It has come to the attention of a myriad of medical researchers that early detection may be a valuable tool for disease management. While early detection does not indicate an intervention toward a cure for the disease, it can improve quality of life during the disease course.
	Beyond the benefits for disease management, discovering a disease “signature” in the brain is manifold. Early detection can lead to a more flexible application of intervention strategies; and if one of these interventions were beneficial in the early stages, it might be possible to support this by delineating a change to that disease signature which could be shown on subsequent MRI scans. This would encourage a continuation of that treatment, as well as suggest implementation of the treatment to other patients. Another benefit to the discovery of the disease signature is the proliferation of the ability of a non-specialist to diagnose the disease in its early stage. There aren’t enough specialists, and it takes a lengthy amount of accumulated experience and study to become a specialist, meanwhile the incidence of Alzheimer’s is increasing.

## Project Goal
	The goal of our project is to harness the ability of certain Machine Learning models to parse thousands of MRI scans to glean some highly nuanced pattern that is present in a disease state. The goal is to develop a knowledge base that can be used for making an early prognosis so that an intervention might be constructed to enhance quality of life, and prepare the patient for the symptoms and the changes in lifestyle that may become necessary throughout the course of the disease, as well as add data for further study of the effects of interventions and drugs, even nutritional strategies that have been hypothesized to have some benefit.
